Title: How to Analyze People on Sight
       Through the Science of Human Analysis: The Five Human Types


Author: Elsie Lincoln Benedict and Ralph Paine Benedict

Printed and Bound
By The Roycrofters at Their Shops
In East Aurora
N. Y.

Copyright, 1921
By Elsie Lincoln Benedict and Ralph Paine Benedict

All rights reserved




  WE THANK YOU


  ¶ To the following men and women we wish to express our appreciation for
  their share in the production of this book:


  _To_ DUREN J. H. WARD, PH. D., formerly of the Anthropology Department
  of Harvard University, who, as the discoverer of the fourth human type,
  has added immeasurably to the world's knowledge of human science.

  _To_ RAYMOND H. LUFKIN, of Boston, who made the illustrations for this
  volume scientifically accurate.

  _To_ THE ROYCROFTERS, of East Aurora, whose artistic workmanship made it
  into a thing of beauty.

  _And last but not least,_


  _To_ SARAH H. YOUNG, of San Francisco, our Business Manager, whose
  efficiency correlated all these and placed the finished product in the
  hands of our students.

  THE AUTHORS

  _New York City, June, 1921_


  DEDICATED
  TO
  OUR STUDENTS




CONTENTS

                                                        Page

  HUMAN ANALYSIS                                          11

  CHAPTER I
  THE ALIMENTIVE TYPE                                     37
    "_The Enjoyer_"

  CHAPTER II
  THE THORACIC TYPE                                       83
    "_The Thriller_"

  CHAPTER III
  THE MUSCULAR TYPE                                      133
    "_The Worker_"

  CHAPTER IV
  THE OSSEOUS TYPE                                       177
    "_The Stayer_"

  CHAPTER V
  THE CEREBRAL TYPE                                      217
    "_The Thinker_"

  CHAPTER VI
  TYPES THAT SHOULD AND SHOULD NOT MARRY EACH OTHER      263

  CHAPTER VII
  VOCATIONS FOR EACH TYPE                                311




What Leading Newspapers Say About Elsie Lincoln Benedict and Her Work


"Over fifty thousand people heard Elsie Lincoln Benedict at the City
Auditorium during her six weeks lecture engagement in Milwaukee."--
_Milwaukee Leader, April 2, 1921._


"Elsie Lincoln Benedict has a brilliant record. She is like a fresh
breath of Colorado ozone. Her ideas are as stimulating as the
health-giving breezes of the Rockies."--_New York Evening Mail, April
16, 1914._


"Several hundred people were turned away from the Masonic Temple last
night where Elsie Lincoln Benedict, famous human analyst, spoke on 'How
to Analyze People on Sight.' Asked how she could draw and hold a crowd
of 3,000 for a lecture, she said: 'Because I talk on the one subject on
earth in which every individual is most interested--himself.'"--_Seattle
Times, June 2, 1920._


"Elsie Lincoln Benedict is a woman who has studied deeply under genuine
scientists and is demonstrating to thousands at the Auditorium each
evening that she knows the connection between an individual's external
characteristics and his inner traits."--_Minneapolis News, November 7,
1920._


"Elsie Lincoln Benedict is known nationally, having conducted lecture
courses in many of the large Eastern cities. Her work is based upon the
practical methods of modern science as worked out in the world's leading
laboratories where exhaustive tests are applied to determine individual
types, talents, vocational bents and possibilities."--_San Francisco
Bulletin, January 25, 1919._




It's not
how much you
know but what
you can
DO
that counts






Human Analysis--The X-Ray

_Modern science has proved that the fundamental traits of every
individual are indelibly stamped in the shape of his body, head, face
and hands--an X-ray by which you can read the characteristics of any
person on sight._


The most essential thing in the world to any individual is to understand
_himself_. The next is to understand the other fellow. For life is
largely a problem of running your own car as it was built to be run,
plus getting along with the other drivers on the highway.

From this book you are going to learn which type of car you are and the
main reasons why you have not been getting the maximum of service out of
yourself.

Also you are going to learn the makes of other human cars, and how to
get the maximum of co-operation out of them. This co-operation is vital
to happiness and success. We come in contact with our fellowman in all
the activities of our lives and what we get out of life depends, to an
astounding degree, on our relations with him.


Reaction to Environment

¶ The greatest problem facing any organism is successful reaction to its
environment. Environment, speaking scientifically, is the sum total of
your experiences. In plain United States, this means fitting
vocationally, socially and maritally into the place where you are.

If you don't fit you must move or change your environment to fit _you_.
If you can't change the environment and you won't move you will become a
failure, just as tropical plants fail when transplanted to the Nevada
desert.


Learn From the Sagebrush

¶ But there is something that grows and keeps on growing in the Nevada
desert--the sagebrush. It couldn't move away and it couldn't change its
waterless environment, so it did what you and I must do if we expect to
succeed. It adapted itself to its environment, and there it stands, each
little stalwart shrub a reminder of what even a plant can do when it
tries!


Moving Won't Help Much

¶ Human life faces the same alternatives that confront all other forms
of life--of adapting itself to the conditions under which it must live
or becoming extinct. You have an advantage over the sagebrush in that
you can move from your city or state or country to another, but after
all that is not much of an advantage. For though you may improve your
situation slightly you will still find that in any civilized country the
main elements of your problem are the same.


Understand Yourself and Others

¶ So long as you live in a civilized or thickly populated community you
will still need to understand your own nature and the natures of other
people. No matter what you desire of life, other people's aims,
ambitions and activities constitute vital obstructions along your
pathway. You will never get far without the co-operation, confidence and
comradeship of other men and women.


Primitive Problems

¶ It was not always so. And its recentness in human history may account
for some of our blindness to this great fact.

In primitive times people saw each other rarely and had much less to do
with each other. The human element was then not the chief problem. Their
environmental problems had to do with such things as the elements,
violent storms, extremes of heat and cold, darkness, the ever-present
menace of wild beasts whose flesh was their food, yet who would eat them
first unless they were quick in brain and body.


Civilization's Changes

¶ But all that is changed. Man has subjugated all other creatures and
now walks the earth its supreme sovereign. He has discovered and
invented and builded until now we live in skyscrapers, talk around the
world without wires and by pressing a button turn darkness into
daylight.


Causes of Failure

¶ Yet with all our knowledge of the outside world ninety-nine lives out
of every hundred are comparative failures.

¶ The reason is plain to every scientific investigator. We have failed
to study ourselves in relation to the great environmental problem of
today. The stage-setting has been changed but not the play. The game is
the same old game--you must adjust and adapt yourself to your
environment or it will destroy you.


Mastering His Own Environment

¶ The cities of today _look_ different from the jungles of our ancestors
and we imagine that because the brain of man overcame the old menaces no
new ones have arisen to take their place. We no longer fear
extermination from cold. We turn on the heat. We are not afraid of the
vast oceans which held our primitive forebears in thrall, but pass
swiftly, safely and luxuriously over their surfaces. And soon we shall
be breakfasting in New York and dining the same evening in San
Francisco!


Facing New Enemies

¶ But in building up this stupendous superstructure of modern
civilization man has brought into being a society so intricate and
complex that he now faces the new environmental problem of human
relationships.


The Modern Spider's Web

¶ Today we depend for life's necessities almost wholly upon the
activities of others. The work of thousands of human hands and thousands
of human brains lies back of every meal you eat, every journey you take,
every book you read, every bed in which you sleep, every telephone
conversation, every telegram you receive, every garment you wear.

And this fellowman of ours has multiplied, since that dim distant dawn,
into almost two billion human beings, with at least one billion of them
after the very things you want, and not a tenth enough to go around!


Adapt or Die

¶ Who will win? Nature answers for you. She has said with awful and
inexorable finality that, whether you are a blade of grass on the Nevada
desert or a man in the streets of London, you can win only as you adapt
yourself to your environment. Today our environmental problem consists
largely of the other fellow. Only those who learn to adapt themselves to
their fellows can win great or lasting rewards.


Externals Indicate Internal Nature

¶ To do this it is necessary to better understand our neighbors--to
recognize that people differ from each other in their likes and
dislikes, traits, talents, tendencies and capabilities. The combination
of these makes each individual's nature. It is not difficult to
understand others for with each group of these traits there always goes
its corresponding physical makeup--the externals whereby the internal is
invariably indicated. This is true of every species on the globe and of
every subdivision within each species.


Significance of Size, Shape and Structure

¶ All dogs belong to the same species but there is a great difference
between the "nature" of a St. Bernard and that of a terrier, just as
there is a decided difference between the natures of different human
beings. But in both instances the actions, reactions and habits of each
can be accurately anticipated on sight by the shape, size and structure
of the two creatures.


Differences in Breed

¶ When a terrier comes into the room you instinctively draw away unless
